Google Drive-like system
advantage of JAVA 21 new features, compare JAVA with other languages like scala ( i have worked with scala), concurreny control in JAVA and extended to same in distributed systems
designing a website that can take file/folder from user (examplen aadhar/set of documents) validate it from some third party software for its validity (which will take 2-3 seconds), store it in our system and provide back a tracking link to user
design (HLD) a Rate Limiter
 Design principles, Security Concerns, Logging, Clean code, SQL injections, Middle man attacks, Concurrency and MultiThreading issues
 Design a News Aggregator System which has to be done over Hackerrank Whiteboard.

Present real time updates from multiple new sources to a UI where users can login and set their preferences.
Java Streams 
Features of java 8, 11 and 17.
What is Spring?
Why do we use Spring?
Difference between Spring and Spring boot?
What is runnable and callable.
Types of exceptions in Java.
Exception hierarchy in Java.
Questions around multithreading.
What are the different Design patterns in java, explain a few with examples.
How does autowiring work in Spring.
What is spring security.

5-6 comments like Class violating SRP principal, usage of volatile keyword for state changing variable, hardcoded urls, credentials, secrets, exception handling for API call, etc. 
design Airbnb/NoBroker type property listing service
design a full scale Buying-Renting Application which had payment service, property service, etc
 security flaws like SQL Injection, Man-in-the-middle attacks, volatile keyword, Applying SOLID principles, Recognizing concurrency/thread-safety issues.
 Design a file processing platform, Users should be able to upload, view, search, and delete files.

past projects and Spring Boot fundamentals.
SOLID principles, design patterns, UML relationships, and implementing the Builder pattern
design a notification system from scratch.
previous projects and backend development with Spring Boot.

OOP concepts, static/volatile usage, and overall maintainability.